---
parent: attribute.ce
source: fate-grand-order
id: silver-key-rosary
language: en
weight: 0
---

This “key” supposedly existed in Salem, Massachusetts for a time. It was there for a few decades, but considering the key’s existence is measured in centuries, that time span is just a blink of an eye. The key was methodically preserved by a thaumaturgist, who came from England. It was wrapped in parchment and then placed inside a box made out of fragrant wood that emitted a sweet-smelling aroma. The key granted special powers to the possessor. But it couldn’t be in the hands of just anybody. There were specific conditions that had to be met. The conditions were that the individual had to be innocent, possess the heart of a child, and have knowledge of magecraft. This was because the key was connected to the dream world. This was due to the fact that, according to the “Book of Eibon,” “Necronomicon,” and other grimoires, the key was created by a thaumaturgist who came from the northern continent that had sunk during the Glacial Period. While it is indeed called a key since it closely resembled the excavated artifacts from the ruins of Rome, there was no lock that was paired with it. It was essentially a key based off of a concept, and it should have actually been called something similar to a staff that thaumaturgists wield. When the catastrophe that was the Witch Trials of Salem occurred, the key should have been lost and hidden away as just another myth or superstition. However, it found an individual who met the conditions to inherit it. The girl’s name was Abigail Williams. The girl rightfully and correctly used the key, handed to her by the Demon God Pillar, during sunset, when the hills of the execution site turned crimson the moment the celestial bodies aligned. Iä! Iä! The red seal on the devil’s tome inscribed by the women suspected to be witches… The same knots of the same number of nine seals were handled with the same motion fit for each seal…and the girl opened up the door that led to the “Boundary.” Iä! Iä! Y-grah’n li’gai gai! Those who gaze back on us from within the abyss of falsity. O lord of the ultimate gate who reigns beyond the corridors of dreams. O, All-in-One and One-in-All being. We must caution those who come in contact with the young girl. The girl’s existence shall put the world into uncertainty. But… Oh… Ohhh…

…The excerpt ends there.
